Initial Introduction addition (#68)
ietf-rats-wg/draft-ietf-rats-corim: draft-ietf-rats-corim.md

  I-D.ietf-sacm-coswid: coswid
  I-D.ietf-rats-architecture: rats-arch
  I-D.ietf-rats-eat: eat

>   I-D.draft-ietf-rats-concise-ta-stores: ta-store

Reviewer: This is not the way I-D refs work.  If you want you can copy the ref I've left inline in one of my previous comments.

Author: This seems to be working and taking us to the IETF data tracker for concise TA Store?

Reviewer: `draft-` is not needed

in secure interactions with it. Evidence about trustworthiness can be rather
complex and it is deemed unrealistic that every Relying Party is capable of the
appraisal of Evidence. Therefore that burden is typically offloaded to a
Verifier. In order to conduct Evidence appraisal, a Verifier requires not only
fresh Evidence from an Attester, but also trusted Endorsements and Reference
Values from Endorsers and Reference Value Providers, such as manufacturers,
distributors, or device owners. This document specifies the information elements for
conveying Endorsed Values and Reference Values as CBOR, that shall be used by Endorsed Value & Reference Value providers.

--- middle

# Introduction

> Supply chain entities provide the necessary Endorsements and Reference Values to a Verifier.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Supply chain entities provide necessary Endorsements and Reference Values to a Verifier.
```

> Supply chain entities provide the necessary Endorsements and Reference Values to a Verifier.

Author: Add RATS reference to this,

> Supply chain entities provide the necessary Endorsements and Reference Values to a Verifier.

Author: ```suggestion
Supply chain entities provide the necessary Endorsements and Reference Values associated with an Attester to a Verifier.
```

Some examples of supply chain entites are Original Equipement Manufacturers (OEMs), Original

> Device Manufactueres (ODMs), firmware vendors, software vendors etc. Generally, these values

Author: We do not want to remove etc, as this list may not be complete and this is only a limited set and not a definitive set of entities.

> are information provided by the manufacturer and suppliers about the Attester.  In a complex

Author: Remove these values are from the text

supply chain, it is likely multiple entities will produce these values at different point in time.

> This document defines a data model for encoding manifest that contains the Endorsements and Reference Values. The model defined in this document facilitate interoperability between different supply chain entities and also between multiple Verifiers receiving these Endorsements and Reference Values.

Author: ```suggestion
This document defines a data model for encoding manifest that contains the Endorsements and Reference Values. The model defined in this document facilitate harmonization between different supply chain entities and also between multiple Verifiers receiving these Endorsements and Reference Values.
```

> This document defines a schema for encoding manifest that contains the Endorsements and Reference Values. The schema defined in this document facilitate interoperability between different supply chain entities and also between multiple Verifiers receiving these Endorsements and Reference Values.

Author: a `schema` is synonymous to a model, I am happy to change it to data model, if that suits better!

> This document specifies Concise Reference Integrity Manifests (CoRIM) for expressing

Author: ```suggestion
This document specifies Concise Reference Integrity Manifests (CoRIM) for expressing
```
This line is abosbed in 107 and can be unified

Endorsements and Reference Values in CBOR format. Inside CoRIM, Concise Module ID (CoMID)
tags contain metadata and claims about the hardware and firmware modules. CoMID tags

> describe platforms, devices and components. A CoSWID Tag represents a Concise representation of a SWID tag and can be implemented in a memory efficient manner. A TA store tag represents a Trust Anchor Store. A CoRIM consists of one or more CoMID and/or CoSWID and/or TA Store tag.

Author: ```suggestion
describe platforms, devices and components. A CoSWID Tag represents a Concise representation of a SWID tag and can be implemented in a memory efficient manner. The tag can be extended to accomodate other types of information example TA store. A TA store tag represents a Trust Anchor Store. A CoRIM consists of one or more CoMID and/or CoSWID and/or TA Store tag.
```

in secure interactions with it. Evidence about trustworthiness can be rather
complex and it is deemed unrealistic that every Relying Party is capable of the
appraisal of Evidence. Therefore that burden is typically offloaded to a
Verifier. In order to conduct Evidence appraisal, a Verifier requires not only
fresh Evidence from an Attester, but also trusted Endorsements and Reference
Values from Endorsers and Reference Value Providers, such as manufacturers,
distributors, or device owners. This document specifies the information elements for
conveying Endorsements and Reference Values as CBOR, that shall be used by Endorsers
& Reference Value providers.

--- middle

# Introduction

Supply chain entities provide the necessary Endorsements and Reference Values refer
{{Section 4.2 of -rats-arch}} associated with an Attester to a Verifier.
Some examples of supply chain entites are Original Equipement Manufacturers (OEMs), Original
Device Manufactueres (ODMs), firmware & software vendors. In a complex

> supply chain, it is likely multiple entities will produce these values at different point in time.

Author: @thomas-fossati I would retain Some examples,  to start on line 104, as we definitely do not want to restrict the set to certain known fixed values.

> supply chain, it is likely multiple entities will produce these values at different point in time.

Author: These are some examples we want to state here. We do not want to have a definitive example set here.

> supply chain, it is likely multiple entities will produce these values at different point in time.

Reviewer: sure, that's what _"examples ... include"_ means.

This document specifies Concise Reference Integrity Manifests (CoRIM), a data model that

> contains the Endorsements and Reference Values. The model defined in this document facilitate harmonisation between different supply chain entities.

Author: I think, it is quite clear that defining a common format helps harmonization and it is a worth stating that, just elevates the relevance of the document

> contains the Endorsements and Reference Values. The model defined in this document facilitate harmonisation between different supply chain entities.

Author: Regardless of what point we are in standardization, it is always good to specify the purpose of the document.

I would retain it for now and let's discuss this in the meeting, what others feel about the purpose/relevance!

> contains the Endorsements and Reference Values. The model defined in this document facilitate harmonisation between different supply chain entities.

Reviewer: I am not strictly against keeping that sentence (though I reckon we could drop it without relevant loss of information), but *if* we want to say that CoRIM _"facilitate harmonisation between different supply chain entities."_, we also need to explain how.

> Inside CoRIM, Concise Module ID (CoMID) tags contain metadata and claims about the hardware and firmware modules. CoMID tags describe platforms, devices and components. A CoSWID Tag represents a Concise representation of a SWID tag and can be implemented in a memory efficient manner. The tag type is extensible so that future revisions can extend it to carry additional information for example, Concise TA Store.

Reviewer: clarify and streamline

```suggestion
Alongside metadata identifying the authoring supply chain entities, the time validity of the contained information, etc., a CoRIM contains a collection of "tags".

Tags can be of different types:

* Concise Module ID (CoMID) tags contain metadata and claims about hardware and firmware modules;
* CoSWID tags represent software components;
* Concise Bill of Material (CoBOM) contain the list of CoMID and CoSWID that are "active" at a certain point in time.

The set of tags is extensible so that future specifications can add new kinds of information.  For example, Concise Trust Anchor Stores (CoTS) {{?I-D.draft-ietf-rats-concise-ta-stores}} are currently being defined as a standard CoRIM extension.
```

> A CoRIM consists of one or more CoMID and/or CoSWID tag.

Reviewer: OBE

```suggestion
```

conveying Endorsed Values and Reference Values as CBOR, that shall be used by Endorsed Value & Reference Value providers.

--- middle

# Introduction

Supply chain entities provide the necessary Endorsements and Reference Values to a Verifier.
Some examples of supply chain entites are Original Equipement Manufacturers (OEMs), Original
Device Manufactueres (ODMs), firmware vendors, software vendors etc. Generally, these values
are information provided by the manufacturer and suppliers about the Attester.  In a complex
supply chain, it is likely multiple entities will produce these values at different point in time.

This document defines a schema for encoding manifest that contains the Endorsements and Reference Values. The schema defined in this document facilitate interoperability between different supply chain entities and also between multiple Verifiers receiving these Endorsements and Reference Values.

This document specifies Concise Reference Integrity Manifests (CoRIM) for expressing
Endorsements and Reference Values in CBOR format. Inside CoRIM, Concise Module ID (CoMID)
tags contain metadata and claims about the hardware and firmware modules. CoMID tags

> describe platforms, devices and components. A SWID tag describe software asset

Author: SWID was just an intro to CoSWID

> describe platforms, devices and components. A SWID tag describe software asset

Author: Anyway I have now removed it for better clarity

in secure interactions with it. Evidence about trustworthiness can be rather
complex and it is deemed unrealistic that every Relying Party is capable of the
appraisal of Evidence. Therefore that burden is typically offloaded to a
Verifier. In order to conduct Evidence appraisal, a Verifier requires not only
fresh Evidence from an Attester, but also trusted Endorsements and Reference
Values from Endorsers and Reference Value Providers, such as manufacturers,
distributors, or device owners. This document specifies the information elements for

> conveying Endorsements and Reference Values in CBOR format.

Author: @nedmsmith  I have corrected it to representing. Please have a look at the latest version just committed!

--- middle

# Introduction

In order to conduct Evidence appraisal, a Verifier requires not only fresh Evidence from an Attester, but also trusted Endorsements (e.g., test results or certification data) and Reference Values (e.g., the version or digest of a firmware component) associated with the Attester from the relevant supply chain actors, such as manufacturers, distributors, or device owners.  In a complex supply chain, it is likely that multiple actors will produce these values at different points in time.

> This document specifies Concise Reference Integrity Manifests (CoRIM) a CBOR {{-cbor}} based data format allowing multiple supply chain actors to securely convey Endorsements and Reference Values to a Verifier.

Author: @nedmsmith I think, you are using an Older version of the document for review!

This has been reworded to:

This document specifies Concise Reference Integrity Manifests (CoRIM) a CBOR {{-cbor}} based data model

in secure interactions with it. Evidence about trustworthiness can be rather
complex and it is deemed unrealistic that every Relying Party is capable of the
appraisal of Evidence. Therefore that burden is typically offloaded to a
Verifier. In order to conduct Evidence appraisal, a Verifier requires not only
fresh Evidence from an Attester, but also trusted Endorsements and Reference
Values from Endorsers and Reference Value Providers, such as manufacturers,
distributors, or device owners. This document specifies the information elements for
conveying Endorsements and Reference Values in CBOR format.

--- middle

# Introduction

> Supply chain actors provide necessary Endorsements and Reference Values

Author: ```suggestion
Supply chain actors provide Endorsements and Reference Values
```

> Supply chain actors provide Endorsements and Reference Values
> {{Section 4.2 of -rats-arch}} that describe an Attester to a Verifier.
> Some examples of supply chain actors are Original Equipement Manufacturers (OEMs), Original
> Device Manufacturers (ODMs), firmware and software vendors. In a complex
> supply chain, it is likely multiple actors will produce these values at different points in time.
> 
> This document specifies Concise Reference Integrity Manifests (CoRIM), a CBOR-based data format to securely convey the Endorsements and Reference Values to a Verifier.
> Typical Reference Values can be the version or a digest for a given firmware component.
> Typical Endorsements may be information such as test results or certification data pertaining to an Attester.

Author: ```suggestion
In order to conduct Evidence appraisal, a Verifier requires not only fresh Evidence from an Attester, but also trusted Endorsements (e.g., test results or certification data) and Reference Values (e.g., the version or digest of a firmware component) associated with the Attester from the relevant supply chain actors, such as manufacturers, distributors, or device owners.  In a complex supply chain, it is likely that multiple actors will produce these values at different points in time.

This document specifies Concise Reference Integrity Manifests (CoRIM) a CBOR {{-cbor}} based data format allowing multiple supply chain actors to securely convey Endorsements and Reference Values to a Verifier.
```

in secure interactions with it. Evidence about trustworthiness can be rather
complex and it is deemed unrealistic that every Relying Party is capable of the
appraisal of Evidence. Therefore that burden is typically offloaded to a
Verifier. In order to conduct Evidence appraisal, a Verifier requires not only
fresh Evidence from an Attester, but also trusted Endorsements and Reference
Values from Endorsers and Reference Value Providers, such as manufacturers,
distributors, or device owners. This document specifies the information elements for
conveying Endorsements and Reference Values in CBOR format.

--- middle

# Introduction

Supply chain actors provide necessary Endorsements and Reference Values
{{Section 4.2 of -rats-arch}} that describe an Attester to a Verifier.
Some examples of supply chain actors are Original Equipement Manufacturers (OEMs), Original
Device Manufactueres (ODMs), firmware & software vendors. In a complex

> supply chain, it is likely multiple actors will produce these values at different point in time.

Author: ```suggestion
supply chain, it is likely multiple actors will produce these values at a different point in time.
```

This document specifies Concise Reference Integrity Manifests (CoRIM), a data format to

> convey the Endorsements and Reference Values. For example, a Reference Value provider will use CoRIM to provision Reference Values  for a specific Attester in a Verifier. Typical Reference Values can

Author: ```suggestion
securely convey the Endorsements and Reference Values to a Verifier. Typical Reference Values can
```

> This document specifies Concise Reference Integrity Manifests (CoRIM), a data format to
> securely convey the Endorsements and Reference Values to a Verifier. Typical Reference Values can
> be a firmware version or a digest for a given firmare component. Similary, an Endorser will
> use CoRIM to provision Endorsements in a Verifier. Endorsements may be information such as test
> results or a certification data pertaining to an Attester.

Author: ```suggestion
This document specifies Concise Reference Integrity Manifests (CoRIM), a data format to
securely convey the Endorsements and Reference Values to a Verifier. Typical Reference Values can
be the version or a digest for a given firmware component. Typical Endorsements may be information such as test results or certification data pertaining to an Attester.
```

Verifier.  In order to conduct Evidence appraisal, a Verifier requires not only
fresh Evidence from an Attester, but also trusted Endorsements and Reference
Values from Endorsers and Reference Value Providers, such as manufacturers,
distributors, or device owners. This document specifies the information elements  for conveying Endorsed Values and Reference Values as CBOR data that shall be used by Supply Chain Entities namely Endorsed Value & Reference Value providers.

--- middle

# Introduction

Supply Chain entities provide the necessary Endorsed and Reference Values to a Verifier. Some examples of supply chain entites are original equipement manufacturers (OEMs), original device manufactueres (ODMs), firmware vendors, software vendors etc. Generally, these Values are information provided by the manufacturer and suppliers about the Attester.  In a complex supply chain, it is likely multiple entities will produce these values at different point in time.

> This document defines the schema for conveying the Endorsed Values and Reference Values to a Verifier. The schema defined in this document facilitate interoperability between different supply chain entities and also between multiple Verifiers receiving these Endorsed and Reference Values.

Author: @nedmsmith I have addressed most of your comments. Please re-review.

I am not convinced we should describe all the triples under CoMID Introduction section, as you stated.

May be I can add a link to individual descriptions for each of the Triples. That might be just sifficient.

This document specifies Concise Reference Integrity Manifests (CoRIM) that represent top level schema for expressing Endorsements and Reference Values in

> CBOR format. Inside CoRIM, Concise Module ID (CoMID) tags are used to express metadata and claims about the hardware and firmware modules. CoMID can be used to describe platforms, devices and components. A SWID Tag models software asset management. A CoSWID Tag represents a Concise representation of a SWID tag and can be implemented in a memory efficient manner. A CoRIM consists of one or more CoMID and/or CoSWID tags.

Reviewer 3: 'CBOR format.' should be moved to line 104.
'tags are used to express' seems verbose : suggest "tags contain metadata and Claims pertaining to hardware and firmware.'
Suggest: "Comid tags can describe..."
Suggest: "SWID tags can describe software..."
'Concise' to 'concise'
'SWID' should include a reference to [ISO_SWID]
Suggest: "...SWID tag that can be..."
The last sentence should be revised to say: "A CoRIM may contain multiple tags and can be extended to include different tag types. The base CoRIM schema defines three tag types: CoMID, CoSWID, and CoBOM."

appraisal of Evidence. Therefore that burden is typically offloaded to a
Verifier. In order to conduct Evidence appraisal, a Verifier requires not only
fresh Evidence from an Attester, but also trusted Endorsements and Reference
Values from Endorsers and Reference Value Providers, such as manufacturers,
distributors, or device owners. This document specifies the information elements for
conveying Endorsements and Reference Values in CBOR format.

--- middle

# Introduction

In order to conduct Evidence appraisal, a Verifier requires not only fresh Evidence from an Attester, but also trusted Endorsements (e.g., test results or certification data) and Reference Values (e.g., the version or digest of a firmware component) associated with the Attester.
Such Endorsements and Reference Values are obtained from the relevant supply chain actors, such as manufacturers, distributors, or device owners.
In a complex supply chain, it is likely that multiple actors will produce these values at different points in time.
Besides, one supply chain actor will only provide the subset of characteristics that they know about the Attester.

> Attesters vary from one vendor to another, and within a vendor from one product to another.

Author: ```suggestion
Attesters vary from one vendor to another, and for a given vendor from one product to another.
```

{::include cddl/digest.cddl}
~~~

# Concise Reference Integrity Manifest (CoRIM)

> A CoRIM contains two logical blocks. It has a collection of tags and metadata about CoRIM.

Author: @nedmsmith It is not just Target Environment related details, it could be Attesting Environment as well...

> A CoRIM contains two logical blocks. It has a collection of tags and metadata about CoRIM.

Author: I would retain CoRIM with expressing what exactly it is trying to convey, however happy to discuss in a meeting!

> A CoRIM contains two logical blocks. It has a collection of tags and metadata about CoRIM creator

Author: ```suggestion
A CoRIM contains two logical blocks. It has a collection of tags and metadata about CoRIM.
```

Tags can be of different types:

* Concise Module ID (CoMID) tags contain metadata and claims about the hardware and firmware modules;

> * CoSWID {{-coswid}} tags describe software components;

Author: Changes Done!

{::include cddl/digest.cddl}
~~~

# Concise Reference Integrity Manifest (CoRIM)

> 

Author: ```suggestion
A CoRIM contains two logical blocks. It has a collection of tags and metadata about CoRIM creator
```

> A CoRIM contains a collection of tags. Tags can be of different types:

Author: ```suggestion
Tags can be of different types:
```

* Concise Module ID (CoMID) tag contain metadata and claims about the hardware and firmware modules;

> * A CoSWID Tag represents a Concise representation of a SWID tag, to represent software components;

Author: ```suggestion
* A CoSWID tag represents a Concise representation of a SWID tag, to represent software components;
```

* A Concise Bill of Material (CoBOM) tag contain the list of CoMID and CoSWID tags that the Verifier
should consider as "active" at a certain point in time.

The tag set is extensible so that future revision of specification can add new kind of information.

> For example, Concise Trust Anchor Stores (CoTS){{-ta-store}} is currently being defined as a standard

Author: ```suggestion

```

> CoRIM extension.

Author: ```suggestion

```

~~~

> # CoRIM

Reviewer 3: The heading should spell out the name: "Concise Reference Integrity Manifest (CoRIM)"

> Concise Reference Integrity Manifests (CoRIM) contain tags that describe the

Reviewer 3: The sentence can simply use 'CoRIM' since the expanded form is in the heading.
Suggest singular form: "A CoRIM contains..."

composition and measurements of a platform, device, component, or software.

> CoRIM is an envelope to carry information typically exchanged between various supply chain entities and a Verifier. For example a Reference Value provider will use CoRIM to provision Reference Values for a specific Attester Class inside a Verifier. Typical Reference Values can be firmware revision or a measurement hash for the given firmare component. Similary an Endorsed Value Provider will use CoRIM to provision a specific Endorsed Value inside a Verifier. Endorsed Values may be any information such as Test Results or a certification data pertaining to an Attester.

Reviewer 3: please break this into multiple lines.

> A CoRIM contains either CoMID and/or CoSWID tags. Please refer COMID and COSWID sections for further details.

Reviewer 3: The first sentence restates what was said above and excludes CoBOM.
References to other sections should include a pointer.

> CoRIM can be integrity protected and authenticated using cryptography. The

Reviewer 3: "A CoRIM..."
"...can be cryptographically authenticated and integrity protected."
Move "The" to line 266.

> CoRIM signer is the entity that asserts the Claims, made within CoRIM.  In a complex

Reviewer 3: "A CoRIM signer is an entity that asserts the integrity and authenticity of Claims."
Claims may be asserted by a 'RIM creator' vs. a 'RIM signer'.

supply chain, it is likely multiple Endorsers will produce CoRIMs, pertaining
to individual components they produce, at different times. Hence a CoRIM can
provide a link to other CoRIMs such that a combination of CoRIMs describe a

> device class.

Reviewer 3: This is misleading as RIMs only have 'RIM locators' that are a hint for discovering possibly relevant RIMs. 
'device class' is ambiguous.

> Within CoRIM a profile entry facilitates a Verifier to uniquely identify Reference or Endorsed Values pertaining to a specific Attestation Scheme. A CoRIM may also have a specific validity time.

Reviewer 3: 'Attestation Scheme' isn't a formal term according to RATS Arch.
It is unclear if line 272 is introducing the concept of 'profiles'. If so, it should provide a reference to the section that describes profiles. A brief summary of a profile might be "A CoRIM profile contains additional information needed to complete appraisals given a specific attestation context."

{::include cddl/digest.cddl}
~~~

# Concise Reference Integrity Manifest (CoRIM)

> CoRIM contain tags that describe the composition and measurements of a platform, device, component, or software.

Author: These are self explanatory terms, used widely in the industry and I expect reader to understand the context!

CoRIM is an envelope to carry information typically exchanged between various supply chain
entities and a Verifier. For example a Reference Value provider will use CoRIM to provision
Reference Values for a specific Attester Class in a Verifier. Typical Reference Values can

> be a firmware version or a digest for a given firmare component. Similary an Endorser will

Author: Firmware version is a specific measurement in terms of revision, so I would like to retain it!

use CoRIM to provision Endorsements in a Verifier. Endorsements may be information such as test

> results or a certification data pertaining to an Attester.

Author: I think, this is quite self explanatory. We do not need to qualify test results, as results obtained when certain set of test cases are executed!

A CoRIM contains either CoMID and/or CoSWID tags. Please refer to CoMID ({{sec-comid}}) and
CoSWID {{-coswid}} for further details.

CoRIM can be integrity protected and authenticated using cryptography.

> The CoRIM signer is the entity that asserts integrity and authenticity of the Claims,

Author: This is as per RATS document alignment where in bulk of the places `Claims` is capitalized!

made within CoRIM. Claims may be asserted by a RIM creator vs a RIM signer.
A device may be comprised of multiple components. Endorsers and Reference Value providers
for each of these components can be different entities, producing CoRIMs at different
times. A CoRIM has a locator map, which allows discovery of possibly relevant RIM's
pertaining to a device or a similar logical grouping.

Within CoRIM a `profile` ({{sec-corim-profile-types}}) entry provides an additional information
to a Verifier that assists in identifying Reference or Endorsements pertaining to a specific

> Attestation Context(example DICE or PSA).

Reviewer: typo: missing space.
also, there missing reference.

```suggestion
Attestation Context (for example, DICE or PSA).
```

> Attestation Context(example DICE or PSA).

Reviewer: profiles deserve a bit more treatment

{::include cddl/digest.cddl}
~~~

# Concise Reference Integrity Manifest (CoRIM)

CoRIM is an outer envelope to carry information exchanged between various supply chain
entities and a Verifier. For example, a Reference Value provider will use CoRIM to provision
Reference Values for a specific Attester in a Verifier. Typical Reference Values can
be a firmware version or a digest for a given firmare component. Similary, an Endorser will
use CoRIM to provision Endorsements in a Verifier. Endorsements may be information such as test

> results or a certification data pertaining to an Attester.

Author: No, in this section, we have set some examples of possible values so elaborating what has been said earlier, it is minimal repetition only on line 269 to set the examples.

> results or a certification data pertaining to an Attester.

Author: Yes, but in Introduction we have not specified any example of Reference Values or Endorsement Values are, so this is setting some specific scene to the CoRIM context, a bit more elaborate example of what has been stated at a very high level in the Intro section.

> results or a certification data pertaining to an Attester.

Reviewer: what I'm suggesting is to streamline this, not to drop it completely.

> results or a certification data pertaining to an Attester.

Author: Yes, point taken and I realized what is the precise problem. This text should be in fact part of the Introduction Paragraph and then move specifics of CoRIM in the CoRIM specific section.

This also removes "Duplication" which is also there in the document so have addressed this in the new revision.

Thank you for your help!

{::include cddl/digest.cddl}
~~~

# Concise Reference Integrity Manifest (CoRIM)

CoRIM contain tags that describe the composition and measurements of a platform, device, component, or software.
CoRIM is an envelope to carry information typically exchanged between various supply chain
entities and a Verifier. For example a Reference Value provider will use CoRIM to provision
Reference Values for a specific Attester Class inside a Verifier. Typical Reference Values can
be firmware revision or a measurement hash for the given firmare component. Similary an
Endorsed Value Provider will use CoRIM to provision a specific Endorsed Value inside a

> Verifier. Endorsed Values may be any information such as test results or a certification data

Author: Endorsed Values have been replaced in my introductions to Endorsements! However we need to work on the remainder of the original text where Endorsed Values may have been referred.

### Identity {#sec-corim-id}

> A CoRIM Indeitifier uniquely identifies a CoRIM instance. The base schema allows UUID and text

Reviewer: typo

> # CoMID {#sec-comid}

Reviewer 3: Expand the acronym in the heading.

> A Concise Module Indentifier (CoMID) contains tag that convey information about hardware or firmware component or module used by supply chain entities to provision into a verifier. Each CoMID has a unique tag identity which is used to identify the CoMID unambigously with in the Verifier.

Reviewer 3: "...is a tag that..."
The tag isn't a conveyance mechanism. Suggest: "...tag contains information about..."
"...used by supply chain <to the rest of the sentence>" can be removed since it is out of scope for this document.
Suggest: "Each CoMID tag has a unique identifier that is used to identify tag instances."

> A CoMID defines several types of claims, using triples. Each triple defines a specific type of claim, as given below.

Reviewer 3: "Claims" vs. "claims"
A short but detailed description of triples is needed. The second sentence doesn't add new information from the first sentence.

> * Reference Triples contain claims for Reference Values that are expected to match the attested Evidence.

Reviewer 3: "Claims" vs. "claims"
The structure of a reference triple should be described and should include a reference to the section that defines the triple.

The subsequent list of triples should follow suit.

~~~

# Concise Module Identifier (CoMID) {#sec-comid}

> A CoMID tag contains information about hardware,firmware, or module composition that is provisioned

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A CoMID tag contains information about hardware, firmware, or module composition that is provisioned
```

> in a Verifier. Each CoMID has a unique identifier that is used to identify tag instances unambigously
> with in the Verifier.

Reviewer: ID is used for linking

```suggestion
in a Verifier. Each CoMID has a unique identifier that is used to identify tag instances unambigously
with in the Verifier.
```

Reviewer 2: tag-id....

> A CoMID defines several types of Claims, using triples. Each triple defines a specific type of Claim,

Reviewer: have we already defined the term "triple" at this point?

> A CoMID defines several types of Claims, using triples. Each triple defines a specific type of Claim,

Reviewer: ditto for capitalised "Claim"

as given below.

* Reference Triples contain Claims for Reference Values that are expected to match the attested Evidence.

* Endorsed Triples contain Claims for Endorsements. These are assertions about the module that do not
require Evidence matching to be accepted by the Verifier. Specific examples include testing or
certification data pertaining to a module, that reflect immutable and dynamic properties of
the module that assists Verifiers to infer more information about the Attester.

* Identity Triples contain Identity Claims, that contain cryptographic credentials used for authentication.

* Attestation Key Triples contain cryptographic keys that are used to verify the integrity protection
on the Evidence received from the Attester.

> * Domain depencency Triples describe trust relationships between domains.

Author: ```suggestion
* Domain dependency Triples describe trust relationships between domains.
```

~~~

# Concise Module Identifier (CoMID) {#sec-comid}

> A CoMID tag contains information about hardware, firmware, or module composition that is provisioned
> in a Verifier. Each CoMID has a unique identifier (tag-id) that is used to unambigously identify
> tag instances. The tag-id may be used to cross reference CoMID tags from other manifest files (CoRIMs)
> and also within the same manifest, such as CoBOM, CoSWID, or TA-Store.

Reviewer: split at line breaks; remove redundancy and inaccuracies

```suggestion
A CoMID tag contains information about hardware, firmware, or module composition.
Each CoMID has a unique id that is used to unambiguously identify
CoMID instances when cross-referencing CoMID tags, for example in typed link relations, or in a CoBOM tag.
```

> A CoMID defines several types of Claims, using triples. A triple is a statement linking one object
> (subject) to another object (object) or a literal, via a predicate.

Reviewer: remove problematic "Claim"

```suggestion
Central to CoMID is the concept of triples.
At a high level, a triple is a statement linking a subject to an object via a predicate.
CoMID triples typically encode assertions made by the CoRIM author about Attesting or Target Environments and their security features, for example measurements, cryptographic key material, etc.
```

> Each triple defines a specific type of Claim, as given below.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The set of triples is extensible.
The following triples are currently defined:
```

> * Reference Triples contain Claims for Reference Values that are expected to match the attested Evidence.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Reference Values triples: containing Reference Values that are expected to match Evidence for a given Target Environment ({{sec-comid-triple-refval}}).
```

> 

Reviewer: kramdown-rfc itemisation does not require empty lines between items, only before the first item.
```suggestion
```

> * Endorsed Triples contain Claims for Endorsements. These are assertions about the module that do not
> require Evidence matching to be accepted by the Verifier. Specific examples include testing or
> certification data pertaining to a module, that reflect immutable and dynamic properties of
> the module that assists Verifiers to infer more information about the Attester.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Endorsed Values triples: containing "endorsed values", i.e. features about a Target Environment that do not appear in Evidence ({{sec-comid-triple-endval}}}).
Specific examples include testing or certification data pertaining to a module.
```

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

* Identity Triples contain Identity Claims, that contain cryptographic credentials used for authentication.

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

* Attestation Key Triples contain cryptographic keys that are used to verify the integrity protection
on the Evidence received from the Attester.

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> * Domain depndency Triples describe trust relationships between domains.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Domain dependency triples: describing trust relationships between domains, i.e., collections of related environments and their measurements ({{sec-comid-triple-domain-dependency}}).
```

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> * Membership Triples describe topological relationships between (sub-)modules. For example a
> composite Attester may comprise of multiple sub-Attesters (sub-modules). This triple
> defines the topological relationship between lead and sub Attester environments.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Domain membership triples: describing topological relationships between modules.
For example, in a composite Attester comprising multiple sub-Attesters, this triple can be used to define the topological relationship between lead- and sub- Attester environments ({{sec-comid-triple-domain-membership}}).
```

> 

Reviewer: please remove spurious NL

> * CoSWID Triples associate modules with existing CoSWID tags.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* CoMID-CoSWID linking triples: associating a Target Environment with existing CoSWID tags ({{sec-comid-triple-coswid}}).
```

~~~

# Concise Module Indentifier (CoMID) {#sec-comid}

> A CoMID tag contains information about hardware or firmware component or module to provision

Reviewer 3: change: "hardware or firmware" to "hardware, firmware, or module composition that is provisioned"

> into a verifier. Each CoMID has a unique identifier that is used to identify tag instances unambigously with in the Verifier.

Reviewer 3: upper case Verifier

A CoMID defines several types of Claims, using triples. Each triple defines a specific type of Claim, as given below.

* Reference Triples contain Claims for Reference Values that are expected to match the attested Evidence.

> * Endorsed Triples contain Claims for Endorsed Values. These are assertions about the module that do not require evidence matching to be accepted by the Verifier. Specific example includes testing or certification data pertaining to a module, that reflect immutable and additional properties of the module that assists verifiers to derive more information about the attester.

Reviewer 3: break into multiple lines.
Change "Specific example includes" to "Specific examples include"
Change "immutable and additional" to "immutable and dynamic"
Change "assits verifiers to derive" to "assist Verifiers to infer"
Change "attester" to "Attester"

* Identity Triples contain Identity Claims, that contain cryptographic credentials used for authentication.

> * Attestation Key Triples contain cryptographic keys which is used to verify the integrity protection on the evidence received from the attester.

Reviewer 3: Change "keys which is" to "keys that are"
Change "evidence" to "Evidence"
Change "attester" to "Attester"

* Domain depencency Triples describe trust relationships between domains.

> * Membership Triples describe topological relationships between (sub-)modules.

Reviewer 3: suggest: "describe the composition and topology of the Attester in terms of its modules and sub-modules."

Author: More than one Attesting Environment within an Attester.

Author: Multiple Attesting Environment within an Attester

# Concise Module Identifier (CoMID) {#sec-comid}

A CoMID tag contains information about hardware, firmware, or module composition that is provisioned

> in a Verifier. Each CoMID has a unique identifier (tag-id) that is used to identify tag instances unambigously in a Verifier. The tag-id is also used as a means to reference a CoMID from other tag, for example a CoBOM tag.

Reviewer 3: suggest: 
"Each CoMID has a unique identifier (tag-id) that is used to unambiguously identify CoMID tags.
The `tag-id` may be used to cross reference CoMID tags from other manifest files and tags within the same manifest, such as a CoBOM, CoSWID, or TA-Store."

# Concise Module Identifier (CoMID) {#sec-comid}

A CoMID tag contains information about hardware, firmware, or module composition. Each
CoMID has a unique identifier (tag-id) that is used to unambigously identify CoMID instances

> when cross referencing CoMID tags, from example in typed link relations, or in a CoBOM tag.

Author: Corrected!

> A CoMID defines several types of Claims, using triples semantics. At a high level, a

Author: Done!

> triple is a statement linking a subject to an object via a predicate.

Author: Its just style of writing, but I have corrected it!

CoMID triples typically encode assertions made by the CoRIM author about Attesting or Target
Environments and their security features, for example measurements, cryptographic key material,
etc.

> The set of triple is extensible.

Reviewer 3: "The set of _triples_ is extensible."

The following triples are currently defined.

> * Reference Values triples: containing Reference Values that are expected to match Evidence

Reviewer 3: " * `reference-value-triple-record`: contains Reference Values that are..."

and subsequent bullets should follow the convention of naming the CDDL triple record IMHO

Author: > " * `reference-value-triple-record`: contains Reference Values that are..."
> 
> and subsequent bullets should follow the convention of naming the CDDL triple record IMHO

We are linking every triple description to the section about that triple.

This is just a top level introduction section. The Triples section should dive into exact names of the triples in my view!

Lets discuss this aspect in the meeting tomorrow!

* Attestation Key Triples contain cryptographic keys that are used to verify the integrity protection
on the Evidence received from the Attester.

> * Domain depndency Triples describe trust relationships between domains.

Reviewer 3: Should be lower case " * Domain dependency triples ..."

* Domain depndency Triples describe trust relationships between domains.

* Membership Triples describe topological relationships between (sub-)modules. For example a

> compostie Attester may comprise of multiple sub-Attesters (sub-modules). This triple

Reviewer 3: may be comprised of

##### Environment

> An `environment-map` may be used to represent a whole Attester, an attesting

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
An `environment-map` may be used to represent a whole Attester, an Attesting
```

Author: @nedmsmith This section was not modified but as this comment is a logical comment, I have changed it in the latest version!

> environment, or a target environment.  The exact semantic depends on the

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Environment, or a Target Environment.  The exact semantic depends on the
```
